# CFZeon
# Project description
This project is a prototype of a job application website, akin to Glassdoor. The video will be timestamped to match the features shown in accordance with the steps instead of a narrated video

# The files contained are 
- /job/*
    - All files in this folder are generated by django and contains the basic files like settings.py
- /recruitment/views.py
    - views.py consists of all the server-side functions related to API calls and routes
- /recruitment/models.py
    - models.py consists of all database models that are used in this project
- /recruitment/urls.py
    - urls.py consists of the many routes used in this project, including API routes
- /recruitment/templates/recruitment/*
    - All the html templates used in the project. Most notable is index.html which consists of the divs that are largely used in the entire project and managed by javascript
- /recruitment/static/recruitment/estar.png (or fstar.png)
    - The star images are drawn for the rating system and are created by me hence no attribution is given.
- /recruitment/static/recruitment/recruitment.js
    - recruitment.js is the javascript file that is largely in charge of the entire project. 
- /recruitment/static/recruitment/styles.css
    - styles.css is the stylesheet used for most elements in the project
- /recruitment/static/migrations/*
    - The migration folders are generated during makemigrations and migratte as indicated in the steps below on how to run the application
- /manage.py
    - The main python script to run the entire project, included by django
- /db.sqlite3
    - included db with test entries to make the testing process less arduous.
    - notable accounts include
        - user&pass: qwer
            - recruiter account
        - user&pass: asdf
            - nonrecruiter account
- /sqlite3.exe
    - downloaded from sqlite3's website to manually query the database and check entries for debugging

# How to run the application
- no additional libraries are used in this project.
- in the console, type
    - python manage.py makemigrations
    - python manage.py migrate
    - python manage.py runserver
- navigate to 127.0.0.1:8000 in a web browser and register an account, with the checkbox ticked to indicate a recruiter/employer to create job listings, I have included my test database which you can also use as it is pre-populated during testing with entries. It is important to note that there are no extra fields for company names or individual names, they are all usernames in this project.
## RECRUITER STEPS
    - OPTIONAL: login to the pre-populated recruiter account of username "qwer" and password "qwer"
    - after registering the recruiter/employer account, navigate to the "New Job Posting" tab and create at least 1 entry
    - Proceed to the Home tab to see that the application is created under "Open Listings"
    - Proceed to the Listings tab to see that the application is also successfully created. Also note that the listing entry is expandable and collapsible. The rest of the listing navigation will be under NON-RECRUITER steps as recruiter functions are limited, i.e. cannot apply to job postings
    - Proceed to the profile page to see your profile, with a star-based rating system that can be interacted by non-recruiters and also multiple comments.
    - Try the search bar with other created accounts. You should see that none of the fields are modifiable when it the profile page is not the current user. The search bar takes in ONLY full usernames. The limitation is explained at the bottom of this document. Likewise the searched profiles would have comments for recruiters, and also ratings, while you are able to see the resumes of. non-recruiters
        - The pre-populated database has   
            - Recruiters
                - qwer
                - wert
            - Non-recruiters
                - asdf
                - zxcv
    - Log out, then create a non-recruiter account and apply to the listings created by this account (alternatively login to one of the premade ones-
    - Log back into this account to see that the homepage is updated. Expand the listing that you applied to earlier. You should see an applicant pop up, with a "View" that directs you to the applicant's profile page and also an "Accept" button that allows you to accept the applicant from the job posting. The Close listing button finalizes the job listing and stops it from showing up in the Listings menu. You are also unable to accept new applicants once a listing is finalized. The delete button deletes the entire entry from the database.
    - For testing purposes, accept the applicant, then log back into the applicant account to see that the "Accepted Postings" tab has the listing that the recruiter accepted.
## NON-RECRUITER STEPS
    - OPTIONAL: login to the pre-populated non-recruiter / job seeker account of username "asdf" and password "asdf"
    - Create a new non-recruiter account
    - Navigate to the profile page to update the categories you are interested in, and fill in a sample resume (with a character limit of 1500- then click on the update button to finalize the changes
    - Navigate to a company page (preferably the user "qwer" with pre-filled entries) and click on the star rating system. The star rating system calculates an aggregate of all user ratings provided to the company and updates the stars live. The individual stars are clickable and provide a rating from 1 to 5 from left to right respectively
    - Write a new comment for the company. Note that comments created by the same user is editable, while comments created by other users are not.
    - Note that you can also search up other user profiles and view their resumes.
    - Redirect to the Home tab and note that up to the latest 5 listings from categories you are interested in appears in the homepage, with an option to expand and collapse each listing and apply to them (or unapply if you have already)
    - Move to the Listing tab and try the filters provided. Pagination is included here and each page consists of 5 listings. Apply to a few listings 
    - navigate back to the home page to see that the listings you applied to are reflected in the home page. 


# Distinctiveness and Complexity
The project is distinctive from past projects as compared to
- commerce
    - The job listings allow an employer to view all potential candidate profiles and their resumes instead of picking the highest bidder. In addition, what should follow is an interview process where the salary is negotiable instead of a fixed value

- mail
    - The focus of the project is not centered around propagating messages to a fixed set of recipients but rather, broadcasted.

- network
    - Though it is strongly related around connecting people to one another, the goal here is not to create and share content as with social media, but strictly for a person to find jobs related to what they are interested in since social media might curate the image of a person and I think that this bias should not be inherent in job applications.


- In addition, the project is more complex than all of the above as it draws elements from all of them and has added features. Similar features include but are not limited to
    - commerce
Having a listing with a title and description, and a numeric value that other people can apply to.
Users can also comment on companies in a similar manner to glassdoor.

    - mail
Users can easily expand and truncate job listings while viewing, and can easily apply to them at the click of a button

    - network
Users are able to follow categories and access them easily in addition to being able to see the latest job listings especially in categories that they are interested in. Users are also able to see the number of applicants to a job listing, similar to the "like" requirement

- Features that are added on in addition to the ones stated above are
    - Different feature sets for 2 groups of users
        - Job seekers
            - can update their resumes
            - can indicate interest in multiple job categories
            - can apply to job listings 
            - has a main page that shows them their listings that they applied to and a subset of new job listings from all categories that they subscribe to
    - Recruiters
        - can create job listings
        - has a main page that allows them to manage their present listings (delete, close listing)
        - view applicant profiles at a click from a job listing 
- Mobile responsive (though this is a requirement)
- Average ratings for companies from users with clickable interface that updates on click
- Search mechanism that allows users to bring up both company profiles and user profiles, though it could be improved on as sql does not support substring searching when filtering through character fields

# Additional notes:
- I tried to make function calls reusable and minimize hard coding but I could not come up with solutions for some of these hence why views.py and recruitment.js are very long, in addition to the many API routes used.
- Django's ORM is also very counterintuitive to use which made me use much more queries than required for a function.
- A lot of checks are included server-side during json processing to ensure that users are authorized for the action and not spoofing as another, which added a substantial amount of lines to the code

# Notable bugs
- Occassionally the page refreshes when you search a user in the Profile tab. I am unable to pinpoint why this happens.